Before we dive deeply into building our big final react project we have to take some time to better
understand class components.
More specifically we have to understand the lifecycle methods that are present on them that we can leverage
when writing our class components now inside of our monsters Rolodex project.
We only used component did mount but there's actually a couple others that we need to explore because
they all serve different purposes and they all trigger at different times in a components lifecycle.
And I will show you what that is throughout the next couple lessons.
But before we do that I'm just going to show you what this quick little crate reactive app project that
I've got is about now.
This is just a quick CRM project that I spun up the same way that we did with our monsters rolodex.
Except I only want to use it for demonstration purposes of learning these concepts.
Now if you want I have included the github link to this project but honestly it's not much that you
need to code along with.
It's more for you to see and watch and listen while I explain these upcoming concepts.
But all this project really comprises of is it's slightly modified of what the base project that create
react app gives us and in it I've just modified our app component to have these two buttons that decide
on what to show for our lifecycle component.
Now I know this lifecycle looks component just looks like a bit of text right now but I just put it
here so that you can see whether or not it's there or not.
And what I mean by that is whenever you click this toggle lifecycle button you'll see that that component
disappears right.
I'm pulling it off the DOM based on whether or not you've clicked or toggled the lifecycle button.
And then the update text button whenever you click we'll just put this underscore.
Hello.
And the more you click it the more underscore hellos get appended to that text.
Now let me show you what the code looks like.
Now as you can see from the folder structure it's pretty much just the base create react at Project.
The only difference is that we have this lifecycle component that will look at a little later that I
import into our app component and then I append it right here.
Now we'll explore this code but the first thing that we need to notice is that our app of course is
a class based component that has a state where the initial values are.
This show child property that is a boolean with the default value being true.
And then this text value which is a string with the default value being an empty string
if you ignore this div in this header in this image because these are pretty much just presentational
HD him the elements.
The main thing is to look at is these two buttons and then of course this code right here in this button.
We have this on click that will fire off our function that calls set state where we set the show child
property of our state equal to the opposite value of what it was currently we do that by using this
bang operator.
And what this bang operator does is it evaluates any boolean or any value to the opposite value that
it is.
So for example if show child is true then I want to set the state value of show child to the opposite
value meaning that it will be bang true which is equal to False bang just says Give me the opposite
boolean value of whatever that value is.
So if state does show child is false then bang false is equal to true so that's all we do.
It's a really handy way for us to toggle between a true and false state by simply calling this bang
operator.
So whenever you click it it will set the show child value to the opposite value as the next state value
in this second button we have this on click that fires this anonymous function that will call a sad
state that sets the state down.
Text to whatever it currently is except adding on this extra underscore Hello string.
So all we do is whenever we click it our state text just gets more and more underscore Hello strings
appended to the end of it.
As we saw whenever we click the button earlier finally we have this code here that determines whether
or not to hide or show our life cycles component so this you might see is kind of odd looking.
This is actually what's called a ternary operator and it sounds like a weird thing but it's actually
just shorthand that allows us to write easier if else statements all it is is it takes the form of this
question mark and this colon with different things between it so you can see it as three parts.
The first part is what we want to evaluate as true or false.
So what do I mean by that.
Well if you can imagine that we had some if statement right
this first initial if statement right where we evaluate something about whether or not it's true or
false is pretty much what this is saying and that's why we use this boolean value that we have in our
state as true or false so I'm saying if this dot state does show how it is true then I want to either
render this or this so this first thing that we see after the question mark is what gets evaluated if
show child.
Right.
So whatever's on this side is true.
So if show child is true render the life cycles component.
If this state does show child is false then render not so you can see this last section here.
Pretty much being what goes into the L statement so you can see this as what goes here.
This as what goes here and this as what goes here so it's pretty much just a really handy and quality
of life coding a syntax that allows us to write if l statements in a much easier and readable way.